## ENteric Immunity SImulator (ENISI) Multi scale model (MSM), RRID:SCR_016918 (SciCrunch.org database).

This repository contanins all the relevant code and data for the following paper: 
### High-Resolution Computational Modeling of Immune Responses in the Gut (*Gigascience. 2019 Jun 1;8(6)*)
Meghna Verma, Josep Bassaganya-Riera, Andrew Leber, Nuria Tubau-Juni, Stefan Hoops, Vida Abedi, Xi Chen, Raquel Hontecillas. 
Paper: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31185494

**Please cite our paper if you use the codes or learnt from our work**



The text includes detailed instructions regarding - i) installing ENISI-MSM and it's dependencies, ii) running the program on a local system and on a server and iii) scripts used for the processing of the outputs generated from the code. Additionally, *README.mkd* in the **/ENISI-MSM/Howtorunasimulation** and **/ENISI-MSM/Sensitivity-Analysis** folders also provides detailed instructions on running simulation and sensitivity analysis respectively. 

## Installation 
```
  mkdir ENISI
  cd ENISI
  git clone https://github.com/NIMML/ENISI-Dependencies 
  git clone https://github.com/NIMML/ENISI-MSM
```

### Building ENISI-Dependencies
```
  cd "path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-Dependencies
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ../
  make
```

### Building ENISI-MSM
```
  cd "path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake -DENISI_MSM_DEPENDENCY="path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-DEPENDENCIES/install" ..
  make
```

### Run the program 

#### Running on the local system

1. Change the paths below in the **run.sh** file (can be located in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Howtorunasimulation** folder).

    - Path for *mpirun* in **run.sh** to be changed to your **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-Dependencies/install/bin/** directory.
    - Path for *ENISI-MSM* executable to be changed to the location of your **~/ENISI/ENISI-MSM/bin/** directory

2. Create a folder where the output files are to be saved (for e.g. *OutputFolder*) with the following file contents :
    - **config.props, run.props, model.props, CD4.cps** and **MregDiff.cps** (All included in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Howtorunasimulation folder**). 
    - Configurable parameter file - **model.props**.
    - **run.props** and **config.props** are the configurable files where you can change - 
        - Number of TICKS (that is a measure of computational time, i.e stop.at = number of TICKS) (**run.props**)
        - Size of the grid cell (**run.props**)
        - Path to output folder (**config.props**)

3.  Run the executable - 
    ```
    ../run.sh "path-to-OutputFolder"
    ```
#### Running on server
1. Install and build *ENISI-Dependencies* and *ENISI-MSM* on the server. 

2. Create a folder to run the simulation and store the output files (for e.g. *OutputFolder*). The contents include:
    * **config.props, run.props, model.props, CD4.cps** and **MregDiff.cps** and **job.sh** files (All included in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Howtorunasimulation folder**).
    * Configurable parameter file - **model.props**.
    * The **run.props** and **config.props** are the files where you can change - 
        * Number of TICKS (that is a measure of computational time, i.e stop.at = number of TICKS) 
        * Size of the grid cell.       
    * The *path-to-OutputFolder* is provided in the **CONFIG** variable specified in the **job.sh** file. 
    
3. Run the executable. 
    ```
    sh job.sh
    ```
    
### Scripts 

All the scripts and parameter sets are listed in **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Processing** folder. 

#### Parameter sets
 * **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Processing/ParameterSets** folder contains the parameter files (**_model.props_**) to be used when          running the program (refer to _'Run the program'_ section above) to reproduce the files used to plot the results in the paper (*currently under review*).
 * The files are named as **model_*.props** where "*" represents the different condition.
 * When running each simulation for the different condition, rename the file to *model.props*. 
  
#### Code for figures in the paper
 * All the jupyter notebooks that create the figure in the paper are provided in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Processing/Figures**. 
 * The files are named as Fig*_Code.ipynb where "*" represents the figure number. 

#### Other scripts
The bash and python scripts are provided in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Processing/Others** folder. Each script has a **_comment section_** that decribes the *usage*, *purpose* and required *location* of the script. 

The folder structure for the below scrips are as follows:
```
   ~/alloutputs/allRuns/setting0/run0
```
- The *alloutputs* folder contains the collections of all outputs.
- The *allRuns* folder (inside the *alloutputs* folder) contains the *settings* folder. 
- The *setting* folder corresponds to a different set of parameters.
- The *run* folder corresponds to the replicates (for e.g. *10*) for individual parameter set. (The *run* folder is similar to the folder created in *Step 2* of running the jobs locally and on the server. The run folders include all the files provided in the **"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Howtorunasimulation** folder)

    1. *lp_code.py* (can be located in any folder; the "path-to-lp_code.py" is required by the *tsvcsv.sh*).
    2. *tsvcsv.sh* (to be located in *~/alloutputs/*).
    3. *average_and_SD.py* (to be located in *~/alloutputs/allRuns/setting0/*). 

The scripts for *Sensitivity-Analysis* and the steps are detailed in **_"path-to-ENISI"/ENISI-MSM/Sensitivity-Analysis/_**. 
